Our networks are particularly difficult to secure for a number of reasons:

Networks are increasingly integrated and complex.
Networks are connected to physical devices.
Cyber criminals can access networks from anywhere in the world.


 Here are just a few of the specialties you might consider for your career:

Cybersecurity Specialist
Cybersecurity Forensic Expert
Information Security Expert
Ethical Hacker

Overview of the Cybersecurity Domains
The word ‘domain’ has many meanings. Wherever there is control, authority, or protection, you might consider that 'area' to be a domain.

New technologies, such as Geospatial Information Systems (GIS) and the Internet of Things (IoT), have emerged. These new technologies
can track the health of trees in a neighborhood.They can provide up-to-date locations of vehicles, devices, individuals and materials. 
This type of information can save energy, improve efficiencies, and reduce safety risks. Each of these technologies will also result 
in exponentially expanding the amount of data collected, analyzed and used to understand the world. The data collected by GIS and IoE
poses a tremendous challenge for cybersecurity professionals in the future. The type of data generated by these devices has the 
potential to enable cyber criminals to gain access to very intimate aspects of daily life.



Heckers:

Amateurs
Amateurs, or script kiddies, have little or no skill, often using existing tools or instructions found on the Internet to 
launch attacks.


Hackers
This group of criminals breaks into computers or networks to gain access for various reasons. The intent of the break-in determines 
the classification of these attackers as white, gray, or black hats. White hat attackers break into networks or computer systems to
discover weaknesses in order to improve the security of these systems. The owners of the system give permission to perform the 
break-in, and they receive the results of the test. On the other hand, black hat attackers take advantage of any vulnerability 
for illegal personal, financial or political gain. Gray hat attackers are somewhere between white and black hat attackers. 
The gray hat attackers may find a vulnerability and report it to the owners of the system if that action coincides with their 
agenda. Some gray hat hackers publish the facts about the vulnerability on the Internet, so that other attackers can exploit it.


Organized Hackers
These criminals include organizations of cyber criminals, hacktivists, terrorists, and state-sponsored hackers. 
Cyber criminals are usually groups of professional criminals focused on control, power, and wealth. The criminals
are highly sophisticated and organized, and may even provide cybercrime as a service. Hacktivists make political 
statements to create awareness to issues that are important to them. Hacktivists publically publish embarrassing 
information about their victims.

Hacking started in the ‘60s with phone freaking (or phreaking) which refers to using various audio frequencies to manipulate 
phone systems. In the mid-‘80s, criminals used computer dial-up modems to connect computers to networks and used password-cracking 
programs to gain access to data.


Modern Terms:

1)Script Kiddies - First used in 1990 and refers to teenagers of inexperience hackers running exixting scripts, tools , and 
                   exploits that could cause harm
                   
2)Vulnerability Broker -  These are usually grey hat hackers who attempts to discover exploits and report them to vendors, sometimes 
                            for rewards
                            
3)Hacktivists - These are Gray hat hackers who rally and protest against different political and social ideas. They publically 
                protests against organisations or govt by posting articles , videos , leaked sensitive information, 
                and performing distributed denial of service(DDOS) attacks.
           
4)Cyber Criminals- These are black hat hackers who are either self emploied of work for large cyber crime organisations 
                    
5)State- Sponsored - Depending on the persons perspective these are either white hat hackers or black hat hackers who steals 
                      govt secrets, gather intelligence, and sabotage networks. Their targets are foreign govenments, terrorist
                      groups, and corporations
                      
                      


Measures to Thwart (Prevent) cyber crimes:

1) Vulnerability Database : The national common vulnerabilities and exposure (CVE) database is an example of the development of a
                            national database. The CVE national database was developed to provide a publicly available db of all 
                            known vulnerabilities 
                            
                            https://www.cvedetails.com/
                            
2) Early warning systems : The Honeynet Project is an example of creating Early Warning Systems. The project provides a honeymap
                            which displays realtime visualization of attacks
                            
                            https://www.honeynet.org/
                            
3) Share Cyber Intelligence - Infraguard is an example of wide spread of cyber intelligence. The infraguard program is a partnership 
                              between FBI and the Private sector. The participants are dedicated to sharing information & intelligence 
                              to prevent hostile cyberattacks 
                              
                              https://www.infragard.org/
                              
 4) ISM Standards - The ISO/IEC 27000 standards are an example of information security management standards. The standards provide a 
                     frameworks for implementing cybersecurity measures within an organization.
                     
                     http://www.27000.org/
                     
 5) New Laws - The ISCA group tracks laws enacted related to cyber security. These laws can address individual privacy
               to protection of intellectual property. Example sof these laws includes:CyberSecurity ACt, Federal Exchange Data 
               Breach Notification Act, Data accountability and trust Act.
               
               https://www.isaca.org/credentialing/cybersecurity/csx-packet-analysis-certificate
              
             
 Threats to Internet Services
 
 There are many essential technical services needed for a network, and ultimately the Internet, to operate. These services 
 include routing, addressing, domain naming, and database management. These services also serve as prime targets for cyber criminals.
 Criminals use packet-sniffing tools to capture data streams over a network.
 
 Domain Name Service (DNS) translates a domain name, such as www.facebook.com, into its numerical IP address. If a DNS server does
 not know the IP address, it will ask another DNS server. With DNS spoofing (or DNS cache poisoning), the criminal introduces false
 data into a DNS resolver’s cache. These poison attacks exploit a weakness in the DNS software that causes the DNS servers to redirect
 traffic for a specific domain to the criminal’s computer, instead of the legitimate owner of the domain.
 
 Packet forgery (or packet injection) interferes with an established network communication by constructing packets to appear as
 if they are part of a communication. Packet forgery allows a criminal to disrupt or intercept packets. This process enables the
 criminal to hijack an authorized connection or denies an individual’s ability to use certain network services. Cyber professionals
 call this a man-in-the-middle attack.
 
 Over the last decade, cyberattacks like Stuxnet proved that a cyberattack could successfully destroy or interrupt critical 
 infrastructures. Specifically, the Stuxnet attack targeted the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system used 
 to control and monitor industrial processes. SCADA can be part of various industrial processes in manufacturing, production, 
 energy and communications systems. Click here to view more information about Stuxnet attack.
               
               
  In the U.S., the National Security Agency (NSA) is responsible for intelligence collection and surveillance activities. 
  The NSA built a new data center just to process the growing volume of information. In 2015, the U.S. Congress passed the 
  USA Freedom Act ending the practice of collecting U.S. Citizens’ phone records in bulk. The program provided metadata that
  gave the NSA information about communications sent and received
  
  
  The Impact of Big Data
  
  Big data is the result of data sets that are large and complex, making traditional data processing applications inadequate. 
  Big data poses both challenges and opportunities based on three dimensions:

The volume or amount of data
The velocity or speed of data
The variety or range of data types and sources



Using Advanced Weapons

An advanced persistent threat (APT) is a continuous computer hack that occurs under the radar against a specific object. 
Criminals usually choose an APT for business or political motives. An APT occurs over a long period with a high degree of 
secrecy using sophisticated malware.

Algorithm attacks can track system self-reporting data, like how much energy a computer is using, and use that information 
to select targets or trigger false alerts. Algorithmic attacks can also disable a computer by forcing it to use memory or 
by overworking its central processing unit. Algorithmic attacks are more devious because they exploit designs used to improve 
energy savings, decrease system failures, and improve efficiencies.


Broader Scope and Cascade Effect

Federated identity management refers to multiple enterprises that let their users use the same identification credentials 
gaining access to the networks of all enterprises in the group. This broadens the scope and increases the probability of a 
cascading effect should an attack occur.
A federated identity links a subject’s electronic identity across separate identity management systems. For example, 
a subject may be able to log onto Yahoo! with Google or Facebook credentials. This is an example of social login.

The goal of federated identity management is to share identity information automatically across castle boundaries. 
From the individual user’s perspective, this means a single sign-on to the web

A telephone denial of service (TDoS) attack uses phone calls against a target telephone network tying up the system and 
preventing legitimate calls from getting through. Next generation 911 call centers are vulnerable because they use 
Voice-over-IP (VoIP) systems rather than traditional landlines. In addition to TDoS attacks, these call centers can 
also be at risk of distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks that use many systems to flood the resources of the 
target making the target unavailable to legitimate users.

The National Cybersecurity Workforce Framework has seven categories

Operate and Maintain  includes providing the support, administration, and maintenance required to ensure IT system performance and security.

Protect and Defend includes the identification, analysis, and mitigation of threats to internal systems and networks.

Investigate includes the investigation of cyber events and/or cyber crimes involving IT resources.

Collect and Operate includes specialized denial and deception operations and the collection of cybersecurity information.

Analyze includes highly specialized review and evaluation of incoming cybersecurity information to determine if it is useful for intelligence.

Oversight and Development provides for leadership, management, and direction to conduct cybersecurity work effectively.

Securely Provision includes conceptualizing, designing, and building secure IT systems.





  
  
                     
                     
                              
                              
                            

 
    
    
