                                                          The Cybersecurity Cube


The first dimension of the Cybersecurity Cube includes the three principles of information security. Cybersecurity 
professionals refer to the three principles as the CIA Triad. The second dimension identifies the three states of 
information or data. The third dimension of the cube identifies the expertise required to provide protection. These are 
often called the three categories of cybersecurity safeguards.

The first dimension of the cybersecurity cube identifies the goals to protect cyberspace. The goals identified in the 
first dimension are the foundational principles. These three principles are confidentiality, integrity and availability.
The principles provide focus and enable the cybersecurity expert to prioritize actions when protecting any networked system.

Confidentiality prevents the disclosure of information to unauthorized people, resources, or processes. Integrity refers to
the accuracy, consistency, and trustworthiness of data. Finally, availability ensures that information is accessible by authorized
users when needed. Use the acronym CIA to remember these three principles.



The second dimension of the Cybersecurity Cube focuses on the problems of protecting all of the states of data in cyberspace. 
Data has three possible states:

Data in transit
Data at rest or in storage
Data in process
The protection of cyberspace requires cybersecurity professionals to account for the safeguarding of data in all three states.




The third dimension of the Cybersecurity Cube defines the skills and discipline a cybersecurity professional can call upon 
to protect cyberspace. Cybersecurity professionals must use a range of different skills and disciplines available to them when
protecting the data in the cyberspace. They must do this while remaining on the ‘right side’ of the law.

The Cybersecurity Cube identifies the three types of skills and disciplines used to provide protection. The first skill includes 
the technologies, devices, and products available to protect information systems and fend off cyber criminals. And rest two are 
policies and practice, 


                                                    CIA Triad

The Principle of Confidentiality

Confidentiality prevents the disclosure of information to unauthorized people, resources and processes. 
Another term for confidentiality is privacy. Organizations restrict access to ensure that only authorized 
operators can use data or other network resources. For example, a programmer should not have access to the 
personal information of all employees.



Controlling Access

Access control defines a number of protection schemes that prevent unauthorized access to a computer, network, database, 
or other data resources. The concepts of AAA involve three security services: Authentication, Authorization and Accounting. 
These services provide the primary framework to control access.

Authentication verifies the identity of a user to prevent unauthorized access. Users prove their identity with a username or 
ID. In addition, users need to verify their identity by providing one of the following:

Something they know (such as a password)
Something they have (such as a token or card)
Something they are (such a fingerprint)


Authorization services determine which resources users can access, along with the operations that users can perform. 
Some systems accomplish this by using an access control list, or an ACL. An ACL determines whether a user has certain 
access privileges once the user authenticates 

Accounting keeps track of what users do, including what they access, the amount of time they access resources, and any changes made.

Cybersecurity accounting tracks and monitors in real time. Websites, like Norse, show attacks in real-time based on data collected
as part of an accounting or tracking system.

https://norsecorp.com/


Laws and Liability

Confidentiality and privacy seem interchangeable, but from a legal standpoint, they mean different things. Most privacy data
is confidential, but not all confidential data is private.Confidential information has a non-public status. Maintaining 
confidentiality is more of an ethical duty.

Privacy is the appropriate use of data. When organizations collect information provided by customers or employees, 
they should only use that data for its intended purpose.

 
 
 
 
 Principle of Data Integrity
 
 
 Integrity is the accuracy, consistency, and trustworthiness of data during its entire life cycle. Another term for 
 integrity is quality. Data undergoes a number of operations such as capture, storage, retrieval, update, and transfer. 
 Data must remain unaltered during all of these operations by unauthorized entities.
 Methods used to ensure data integrity include hashing, data validation checks, data consistency checks, and access controls. 
 
 An integrity check is a way to measure the consistency of a collection of data (a file, a picture, or a record). The integrity 
 check performs a process called a hash function to take a snapshot of data at an instant in time.
 A checksum is one example of a hash function. A checksum verifies the integrity of files, or strings of characters, before and 
 after they transfer from one device to another across a local network or the Internet. Checksums simply convert each piece of 
 information to a value and sum the total. To test the data integrity, a receiving system just repeats the process. If the two
 sums are equal, the data is valid. If they are not equal, a change occurred somewhere along the line.
 Common hash functions include MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, and SHA-512.
 
 
 
 The Principle of Availability
 
 
 Data availability is the principle used to describe the need to maintain availability of information systems and services
 at all times. Cyberattacks and system failures can prevent access to information systems and services.
 
 For example, interrupting the availability of the website of a competitor by bringing it down may provide an advantage 
 to its rival. These denial-of-service (DoS) attacks threaten system availability and prevent legitimate users from 
 accessing and using information systems when needed.
 
 Five Nines
 
 High availability ensures a level of performance for a higher than normal period. 
 High availability systems typically include three design principles:

Eliminate single points of failure - Identify all devices and components in a system that would result in system failure if that 
                                      device fails. this method includes hot stand-by device, redundant components, multiple 
                                      connections or pathways.
Provide for reliable crossover - Reduntant power supply, backup power systems and communications systems all provide a relible 
                                  crossover
Detect failures as they occur - Active devices and system monitoring detects many types of events including system and device 
                                failures. Monitoring system may trigger the backup system in the case of a failure.
                                

The goal is the ability to continue to operate under extreme conditions, such as during an attack. One of the most popular 
high availability practices is five nines. The five nines refer to 99.999%. This means that downtime is less than 5.26 
minutes per year.

Organizations can ensure availability by implementing the following:

Equipment maintenance
OS and system updates
Backup testing
Disaster planning
New technology implementations
Unusual activity monitoring
Availability testing



                                                          Types of Data Storage
                                                          
 Direct-attached storage (DAS) is storage connected to a computer. A hard drive or USB flash drive is an example of 
 direct-attached storage. By default, systems are not set up to share direct-attached storage.
 
 Redundant array of independent disks (RAID) uses multiple hard drives in an array, which is a method of combining multiple disks so 
 that the operating system sees them as a single disk. RAID provides improved performance and fault tolerance.
 
 A network attached storage (NAS) device is a storage device connected to a network that allows storage and retrieval of data from a 
 centralized location by authorized network users. NAS devices are flexible and scalable, meaning administrators can
 increase the capacity as needed
 
A storage area network (SAN) architecture is a network based storage system. SAN systems connect to the network using 
high-speed interfaces allowing improved performance and the ability to connect multiple servers to a 
centralized disk storage repository.

Cloud storage is a remote storage option that uses space on a data center provider and is accessible from any
computer with Internet access. Google Drive, iCloud, and Dropbox are all examples of cloud storage providers.



Network storage systems offer a more secure option. Network storage systems including RAID, SAN and NAS provide greater performance
and redundancy. However, network storage systems are more complicated to configure and manage. They also handle more data, posing 
a greater risk to the organization if the device fails. The unique challenges of network storage systems include configuring, 
testing, and monitoring the system.






States of Data 
1. Data at REST - Physical storage (usb...)
2.Data in-transit
3.Data in process



2.Data in-transit
Methods of Transmitting Data

Sneaker net – uses removable media to physically move data from one computer to another
Wired networks – uses cables to transmit data
Wireless networks – uses radio waves to transmit data

Wired networks include copper-wired and fiber optic media. Wired networks can serve a local geographical area 
(Local Area Network) or they can span great distances (Wide Area Networks).


3.Data in process
The third state of data is data in process. This refers to data during initial input, modification, computation, or output.

Data modification refers to any changes to the original data such as users manually modifying data, programs processing and
changing data, and equipment failing resulting in data modification. Processes like encoding/decoding, compression/decompression
and encryption/decryption are all examples of data modification. Malicious code also results in data corruption



Software-based Technology Safeguards

#Software firewalls control remote access to a system.

#Network and port scanners discover and monitor open ports on a host or server.

#Protocol analyzers, or signature analyzers, are devices that collect and examine network traffic. They identify performance 
problems, detect misconfigurations, identify misbehaving applications, establish baseline and normal traffic patterns, 
and debug communication problems.

#Vulnerability scanners are computer programs designed to assess weaknesses on computers or networks.

#Host-based intrusion detection systems (IDS) examine activity on host systems only. An IDS generates log files and 
alarm messages when it detects unusual activity. A system storing sensitive data or providing critical services is a
candidate for host-based IDS.


Hardware-based Technology Safeguards

#Firewall appliances block unwanted traffic. Firewalls contain rules that define the traffic allowed into and out of a network.

#Dedicated Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) detect signs of attacks or unusual traffic on a network and send an alert.

#Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) detect signs of attacks or unusual traffic on a network, generate an alert and take 
corrective actions.

#Content filtering services control access and transmission of objectionable or offensive content.



Network-based Technology Safeguards

#Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a secure virtual network that uses the public network (i.e., the Internet). 
The security of a VPN lies in the encryption of packet content between the endpoints that define the VPN.

#Network access control (NAC) requires a set of checks before allowing a device to connect to a network. Some common
checks include up-to-data antivirus software or operating system updates installed.

#Wireless access point security includes the implementation of authentication and encryption.



Cloud-based Technology Safeguards

The three main cloud computing services include:

#Software as a Service (SaaS) allows users to gain access to application software and databases. Cloud providers manage the 
infrastructure. Users store data on the cloud provider’s servers.

#Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) provides virtualized computing resources over the Internet. The provider hosts the 
hardware, software, servers, and storage components.

#Platform as a Service (PaaS) provides access to the development tools and services used to deliver the applications.

Cloud service providers have extended these options to include IT as a Service (ITaaS), which provides IT support for IaaS,
PaaS, and SaaS service models. In the ITaaS model, an organization contracts with the Cloud provider for individual or bundled 
services.



Security Policies

security policy typically includes:

1.Identification and authentication policies - Specifies authorized persons that can have access to network resources and 
outlines verification procedures.
2.Password policies - Ensures passwords meet minimum requirements and are changed regularly.
3.Acceptable use policies - Identifies network resources and usage that are acceptable to the organization. It may also 
identify ramifications for policy violations.
4.Remote access policies - Identifies how remote users can access a network and what is remotely accessible.
5.Network maintenance policies - Specifies network device operating systems and end user application update procedures.
6.Incident handling policies - Describes how security incidents are handled.


Cyber Security Domains

The structure of the ISO cybersecurity model is different from the OSI model in that it uses domains rather than layers
to describe the categories for security. The reason for this is that the ISO cybersecurity model is not a hierarchical 
relationship. It is a peer model in which each domain has a direct relationship with the other domains.


Domains:

The twelve domains of Cybersecurity include the following:

1:Risk Assessment is the first step in the risk management process. It determines the quantitative and qualitative value of 
risk related to a specific situation or recognized threat. 

2:Security Policy is the documents that address the constraints and behaviors of members of an organization and often 
specifies how data can be accessed and what data is accessible by whom. 

3:Organization of Information Security is the governance model set out by an organization for information security. 
4:Asset Management is an inventory of and classification scheme for information assets. 
5:Human resources security addresses security procedures relating to employees joining, moving within, and leaving an organization. 
6:Physical and environmental security describes the protection of the computer facilities within an organization. 
7:Communications and operations management describes the management of technical security controls in systems and networks. 
8:Information systems acquisition, development, and maintenance describes the integration of security into applications.
9:Access control describes the restriction of access rights to networks, systems, applications, functions, and data. 
10:Information security incident management describes how to anticipate and respond to information security breaches. 
11:Business continuity management describes the protection, maintenance, and recovery of business-critical processes and systems.
12:Compliance describes the process of ensuring conformance with information security policies, standards, and regulations.






Controls
control objectives tell the organization what to do. Controls define how to accomplish the objective.


Cybersecurity professionals recognize the following:
Controls are not mandatory, but they are widely accepted and adopted.
Controls must maintain vendor-neutrality to avoid the appearance of endorsing a specific product or company.
Controls are like guidelines. This means that there can be more than one way to comply with the objective.




The ISO Cybersecurity Model and the CIA Triad


The ISO 27000 is a universal framework for every type of organization. In order to use the framework effectively, 
an organization must narrow down which domains, control objectives, and controls apply to its environment and operations.

The ISO 27001 control objectives serve as a checklist. The first step an organization takes is to determine if these control 
objectives are applicable to the organization. Most organizations generate a document called the Statement of Applicability (SOA).
The SOA defines which control objectives that the organization needs to use.



