                                                            What is Malware?
                                                            
 Malicious software, or malware, is a term used to describe software designed to disrupt computer operations, 
 or gain access to computer systems, without the user's knowledge or permission.      
 
 Viruses

A virus is malicious executable code attached to another executable file, such as a legitimate program. 
Most viruses require end-user initiation, and can activate at a specific time or date. Computer viruses usually 
spread in one of three ways: from removable media; from downloads off the Internet; and from email attachments.

Worms

Worms are malicious code that replicates by independently exploiting vulnerabilities in networks. Worms usually slow down networks.
Whereas a virus requires a host program to run, worms can run by themselves.


Trojan horse

A Trojan horse is malware that carries out malicious operations under the guise of a desired operation such as playing an online game. 
This malicious code exploits the privileges of the user that runs it. A Trojan horse differs from a virus because the Trojan binds 
itself to non-executable files, such as image files, audio files, or games.

Logic Bombs

A logic bomb is a malicious program that uses a trigger to awaken the malicious code. For example, triggers can be dates, times, 
other programs running, or the deletion of a user account. The logic bomb remains inactive until that trigger event happens. 
Once activated, a logic bomb implements a malicious code that causes harm to a computer. A logic bomb can sabotage database
records, erase files, and attack operating systems or applications. 


Ransomware

Ransomware holds a computer system, or the data it contains, captive until the target makes a payment.
Ransomware usually works by encrypting data in the computer with a key unknown to the user.


Backdoors

A backdoor refers to the program or code introduced by a criminal who has compromised a system. The backdoor bypasses the normal 
authentication used to access a system. A few common backdoor programs are Netbus and Back Orifice, which both allow remote 
access to unauthorized system users. The purpose of the backdoor is to grant the cyber criminals future access to the system 
even if the organization fixes the original vulnerability used to attack the system.


Rootkits

A rootkit modifies the operating system to create a backdoor. Attackers then use the backdoor to access the computer remotely. 
Most rootkits take advantage of software vulnerabilities to perform privilege escalation and modify system files


Spam

Spam, also known as junk mail, is unsolicited email.



Spyware

Spyware is software that enables a criminal to obtain information about a user’s computer activities.
Spyware often includes activity trackers, keystroke collection, and data capture.



Adware

Adware typically displays annoying pop-ups to generate revenue for its authors. The malware may analyze user interests by tracking
the websites visited.


Scareware

Scareware persuades the user to take a specific action based on fear. Scareware forges pop-up windows that resemble operating 
system dialogue windows. These windows convey forged messages stating that the system is at risk or needs the execution of a 
specific program to return to normal operation. In reality, no problems exist, and if the user agrees and allows the mentioned
program to execute, malware infects his or her system


Phishing

Phishing is a form of fraud. Cyber criminals use email, instant messaging, or other social media to try to gather information 
such as login credentials or account information by masquerading as a reputable entity or person.

Spear phishing is a highly targeted phishing attack. While phishing and spear phishing both use emails to reach the victims,
spear phishing sends customized emails to a specific person. The criminal researches the target’s interests before sending the email.


Vishing

Vishing is phishing using voice communication technology. Criminals can spoof calls from legitimate sources 
using voice over IP (VoIP) technology.


Smishing

Smishing (Short Message Service phishing) is phishing using text messaging on mobile phones.

Pharming

Pharming is the impersonation of a legitimate website in an effort to deceive users into entering their credentials. 
Pharming misdirects users to a fake website that appears to be official.


Whaling

Whaling is a phishing attack that targets high profile targets within an organization such as senior executives.


SEO Poisoning

While many legitimate companies specialize in optimizing websites to better position them, SEO poisoning uses SEO to 
make a malicious website appear higher in search results.


Browser Hijacker

A browser hijacker is malware that alters a computer's browser settings to redirect the user to websites paid for by the 
cyber criminals' customers. Browser hijackers usually install without the user's permission and are usually part of a 
drive-by download. A drive-by download is a program that automatically downloads to the computer when a user visits a 
web site or views an HTML email message.



-------------------------x------------------x------------------------------------------------------------------

The Anti-Phishing Working Group (APWG) is an industry association focused on eliminating the identity theft and fraud that result from 
phishing and email spoofing.

--------------------------------------------x-------------x-----------------------------------------------------------

Social Engineering

Social engineering is a completely non-technical means for a criminal to gather information on a target. Social engineering
is an attack that attempts to manipulate individuals into performing actions or divulging confidential information.


These are some types of social engineering attacks:

Pretexting - This is when an attacker calls an individual and lies to them in an attempt to gain access to privileged data. 
An example involves an attacker who pretends to need personal or financial data in order to confirm the identity of the recipient.

Something for Something (Quid pro quo) - This is when an attacker requests personal information from a party in exchange for
something, like a gift



Social Engineering Tactics

Authority – people are more likely to comply when instructed by “an authority”
Intimidation – criminals bully a victim into taking action
Consensus/Social Proof – people will take action if they think that other people like it too
Scarcity – people will take action when they think there is a limited quantity
Urgency – people will take action when they think there is a limited time
Familiarity/Liking – Criminals build a rapport with the victim to establish a relationship
Trust – Criminals build a trusting relationship with a victim which may require more time to establish


Shoulder Surfing

A criminal observes, or shoulder surfs, to pick up PINs, access codes or credit card numbers.


Dumpster diving

dumpster diving  is the process of going through a target's trash to see what information an organization throws out.


Impersonation

Impersonation is the action of pretending to be someone else.


Hoax

A hoax is an act intended to deceive or trick. A cyber hoax can cause just as much disruption 
as an actual breach would cause. A hoax elicits a user reaction.

https://www.hoax-slayer.com/


Piggybacking / Tailgatng

Piggybacking occurs when a criminal tags along with an authorized person to gain entry into a secure location or a restricted area. Criminals use several methods to piggyback:

They give the appearance of being escorted by the authorized individual
They join a large crowd pretending to be a member
They target a victim who is careless about the rules of the facility


Denial of Service

Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks are a type of network attack. A DoS attack results in some sort of interruption of network 
services to users, devices, or applications.

There are two major types of DoS attacks:

Overwhelming Quantity of Traffic – The attacker sends an enormous quantity of data at a rate that the network, host, or 
application cannot handle. This causes a slowdown in transmission or response, or a crash of a device or service.
Maliciously Formatted Packets – The attacker sends a maliciously formatted packet to a host or application and the 
receiver is unable to handle it.




Sniffing

Sniffing is similar to eavesdropping on someone. It occurs when attackers examine all network traffic as it passes 
through their NIC, independent of whether or not the traffic is addressed to them or not. Criminals accomplish network 
sniffing with a software application, hardware device, or a combination of the two.


Spoofing

Spoofing is an impersonation attack, and it takes advantage of a trusted relationship between two systems. If two systems 
accept the authentication accomplished by each other, an individual logged onto one system might not go through an 
authentication process again to access the other system. An attacker can take advantage of this arrangement by sending a 
packet to one system that appears to have come from a trusted system.


There are multiple types of spoofing attacks.

1.MAC address spoofing occurs when one computer accepts data packets based on the MAC address of another computer.
2.IP spoofing sends IP packets from a spoofed source address to disguise itself.
3.Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a protocol that resolves IP addresses to MAC addresses for transmitting data. ARP spoofing 
sends spoofed ARP messages across a LAN to link the criminal’s MAC address with the IP address of an 
authorized member of the network.
4.The Domain Name System (DNS) associates domain names with IP addresses. DNS server spoofing modifies the DNS server to 
reroute a specific domain name to a different IP address controlled by the criminal.




Man-in-the-middle

A criminal performs a man-in-the-middle (MitM) attack by intercepting communications between computers to steal 
information crossing the network. MitM allows the criminal to take control over a device without the user’s knowledge.

Man-In-The-Mobile (MitMo) is a variation of man-in-middle. MitMo takes control over a mobile device. The infected mobile 
device sends user-sensitive information to the attackers. ZeuS, an example of an exploit with MitMo capabilities, allows 
attackers quietly to capture 2-step verification SMS messages sent to users.


Zero-Day Attacks

A zero-day attack, sometimes referred to as a zero-day threat, is a computer attack that tries to exploit software 
vulnerabilities that are unknown or undisclosed by the software vendor. The term zero hour describes the moment when 
someone discovers the exploit.


Keyboard Logging

Keyboard logging is a software program that records or logs the keystrokes of the user of the system. Criminals can 
implement keystroke loggers through software installed on a computer system or through hardware physically attached to 
a computer. The criminal configures the key logger software to email the log file. The keystrokes captured in the log 
file can reveal usernames, passwords, websites visited, and other sensitive information.


--------------------------------------------x-----------------------------x----------------------------------------
Defendings:


To prevent DoS and DDoS attacks, ensure patches and upgrades are current, distribute the workload across server systems, 
and block external Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) packets at the border. Network devices use ICMP packets to send
error messages. For example, the ping command uses ICMP packets to verify that a device can communicate with another on the network.

https://www.theguardian.com/public-leaders-network/2015/oct/14/how-to-stop-cyber-attacks-on-your-organisation



















