                                      CRYPTOGRAPHY
                                      
                                      
                                      
Types of Cryptography

Block Ciphers

Block ciphers transform a fixed-length block of plaintext into a common block of ciphertext of 64 or 128 bits. 
Block size is the amount of data encrypted at any one time. To decrypt this ciphertext, apply the reverse 
transformation to the ciphertext block, using the same secret key.


Stream Ciphers

Unlike block ciphers, stream ciphers encrypt plaintext one byte or one bit at a time



Symmetric Encryption Algorithms

3DES (Triple DES): Digital Encryption Standard (DES) is a symmetric block cipher with 64-bit block size that uses a 56-bit key. 
It takes a 64-bit block of plaintext as input and outputs a 64-bit block of ciphertext. 


Triple DES encrypts data three times and uses a different key for at least one of the three passes, giving it a cumulative key
size of 112-168 bits. 3DES is resistant to attack, but it is much slower than DES.

The 3DES encryption cycle is as follows:

1. Data encrypted by first DES

2. Data decrypted by second DES

3. Data re-encrypted by third DES

IDEA: The International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA) uses 64-bit blocks and 128-bit keys. IDEA performs eight rounds 
of transformations on each of the 16 blocks that results from dividing each 64-bit block. IDEA was the replacement for DES, 
and now PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) uses it.


AES: The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) has a fixed block size of 128-bits with a key size of 128, 192, or 256 bits. 
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) approved the AES algorithm in December 2001. The U.S. government 
uses AES to protect classified information.


http://des.online-domain-tools.com/


Asymmetric Encryption Algorithms

RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) - uses the product of two very large prime numbers with an equal length of between 100 and 200 digits. 
Browsers use RSA to establish a secure connection.

Diffie-Hellman - provides an electronic exchange method to share the secret key. Secure protocols, such as Secure Sockets Layer (SSL),
Transport Layer Security (TLS), Secure Shell (SSH), and Internet Protocol Security (IPsec), use Diffie-Hellman.

ElGamal - uses the U.S. government standard for digital signatures. This algorithm is free for use because no one holds the patent.

Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) - uses elliptic curves as part of the algorithm. In the U.S., the National Security Agency uses
ECC for digital signature generation and key exchange.



Key Management


Key management includes the generation, exchange, storage, use, and replacement of keys used in an encryption algorithm.

Two terms used to describe keys are:

Key length - Also called the key size, this is the measure in bits.
Keyspace - This is the number of possibilities that a specific key length can generate.


Four protocols use asymmetric key algorithms:

Internet Key Exchange (IKE), which is a fundamental component of IPsec Virtual Private Networks (VPNs).
Secure Socket Layer (SSL), which is a means of implementing cryptography into a web browser.
Secure Shell (SSH), which is a protocol that provides a secure remote access connection to network devices.
Pretty Good Privacy (PGP), which is a computer program that provides cryptographic privacy and authentication to
                           increase the security of email communications
                           
                           
 A VPN is a private network that uses a public network, usually the Internet, to create a secure communication channel. 
 A VPN connects two endpoints such as two remote offices over the Internet to form the connection
 
 
 
 Physical Access Controls
Physical access controls are actual barriers deployed to prevent direct contact with systems. The goal is to prevent 
unauthorized users from gaining physical access to facilities, equipment, and other organizational assets.

Logical Access Controls
Logical access controls are the hardware and software solutions used to manage access to resources and systems. 
These technology-based solutions include tools and protocols that computer systems use for identification, authentication, 
authorization, and accountability.

Logical access controls include the following:

Encryption is the process of taking plaintext and creating ciphertext
Smart cards have an embedded microchip
Passwords are protected string of characters
Biometrics are users’ physical characteristics
Access Control Lists (ACLs) define the type of traffic allowed on a network
Protocols are a set of rules that govern the exchange of data between devices
Firewalls prevent unwanted network traffic
Routers connect at least two networks
Intrusion Detection Systems monitor a network for suspicious activities
Clipping Levels are certain allowed thresholds for errors before triggering a red flag



Administrative Access Controls
Administrative access controls are the policies and procedures defined by organizations to implement and enforce all
aspects of controlling unauthorized access. Administrative controls focus on personnel and business practices.


Administrative controls include the following:

Policies are statements of intent
Procedures are the detailed steps required to perform an activity
Hiring practices involves the steps an organization takes to find qualified employees
Background checks are an employment screening that includes information of past employment verification, credit history,
and criminal history
Data classification categorizes data based on its sensitivity
Security training educates employees about the security policies at an organization
Reviews evaluate an employee’s job performance



Mandatory Access Control
Mandatory access control (MAC) restricts the actions that a subject can perform on an object. A subject can be a user or a
process. An object can be a file, a port, or an input/output device. An authorization rule enforces whether or not a subject
can access the object.


Discretionary Access Control
An object’s owner determines whether to allow access to an object with discretionary access control (DAC). DAC grants or 
restricts object access determined by the object’s owner. As the name implies, controls are discretionary because an 
object owner with certain access permissions can pass on those permissions to another subject.


Role-Based Access Control
Role-based access control (RBAC) depends on the role of the subject. Roles are job functions within an organization. 
Specific roles require permissions to perform certain operations. Users acquire permissions through their role.

Rule-Based Access Control
Rule-based access control uses access control lists (ACLs) to help determine whether to grant access. A series of rules is contained 
in the ACL. The determination of whether to grant access depends on these rules. An example of such a
rule is one that states that no employee may have access to the payroll file after hours or on weekends.


